Let's kick it off to talk about
components which really are the life and
blood of most front end
applications these days.
This is why frameworks have become so
popular.
It's because when we have
applications that are large,
we need ways to break it down into smaller
pieces so that they're easier to maintain.
But of course the question is at scale,
what are some call it best practices and
ideas that might help you
better manage your components.
Let's start with the very basics which is
when it comes to naming your components,
here are some conventions
that I recommend.
So there's a great Drake meme
where you can see at the very top,
he's like, What I don't wanna do which
is in this case it's actual programming.
Whereas debating how to name a variable
for 30 minutes is something that we often
have probably encountered as far as
bike shedding and those sort of things.
So as far as best practice goes,
generally speaking,
avoid using single word components when
it comes to naming your components.
So whether it's header, button is
the most egregious version of this.
And the reason why for
this is quite simple.
It's because we want to try and
avoid conflicts with basically
standard HTML5 spec.
While you might say that although
sometimes we're using Pascal case very
consistently, like it's just better to
avoid these sort of things in order
to provide that sort of
alignment with the HTML5 spec.
Which vue actually tries to do a lot
as well because we want to allow you to
leverage what you already know.
And then build on top of that rather
than having you to learn something
totally different.
So an example of this would be like filter
which is the functionality in vue two,
uses that pipe symbol.
And so one of the reasons it is been
deprecated from vue 3 while it's some
people did support sort of they like
using it is because the JavaScript
is actually thinking about implementing
their own single pipe operator in order to
do something.
There's a whole spec on that.
But basically, this means now that if you
were to keep the single pipe operator as
like standard view syntax, now there will
always be that question of is this the vue
single pipe operator or is this the
JavaScript single pipe basically operator.
And so in this regard, this is one of the
reasons why like whenever we pretending
everything like v dash for the directives
and like the sort of the events as well,
so that it's very clear what's
coming from vue and what's not.
And so just like this, even if you're
using Pascal case for your components,
please just avoid single word
components as much as humanly possible.
And so instead we recommend basically
prefixing it with some sort of
like indicator whether it's an app.
And especially the most common one that's
used especially when you're doing things
like inputs and
like you're trying to read like you're
simply wrapping an existing HTML element.
Then calling it base is a really common
way of basically naming your components in
a way that makes it very clear that,
hey, this is a base button, right?
It's like it's basically
the button element, but
this is like this is
coming from the vue side.
This is coming from developers who have
defined it differently than what is being
provided by the browser natively.
And so you can see examples of this
include AppButton, AppModal, BaseDropdown,
BaseInput.
These are ways to sort of take care of
those scenarios where you might want to
typically just use one word,
add that base to it.
It'll make your life a lot easier when
you're scaling your application long term.
In any instance where you have single
instance components where basically you
can only have one on
the page at any given time.
It's actually one of the sort of advice
I can provide you is to prefix it
with The instead.
So in this case, you can see like
example of this include TheShoppingCart,
TheSidebar, TheNavbar.
The reason for this is just because while
it's not gonna do anything at compile
time, there is something about that
developer ergonomic when like if you're
rendering something that sort of has
that small little bit of a red flag.
That's like, I'm running a V4
loop on the shopping cart.
Like that's a little weird.
And so when people see multiple instances,
that can be basically a red flag for
either one.
They shouldn't be existing
on the same page.
Or two, if you're like, no, no, no, we
actually can have multiple shopping carts.
This also is a great way of indicating
maybe it's time to refactor to something
more generic rather than or
even renaming it entirely.
So a nice way of communicating there
should only be one without sort of
clogging up your bill tools.
And so in addition to this when
it comes to naming components,
we strongly recommend trying to
name the tightly coupled and
related components together in
a way that strings it over time.
So there are a lot of benefits to this
as far as not only being able to easily
spot that relationship, but when it comes
to the file tree and sort of like reading
it out, you can see that they're
nested right next to each other.
And then you always get that like
consistency as far as what to expect.
So in our example here, you can see
that we have a ToDoList component and
then we have a ToDoListItem component and
then if you wanna go even further,
we could have TodoListItemName.
Now some of you may be thinking,
well, that names kind of long.
But again, one with autocomplete these
days long names shouldn't be like we're
not actually typing more as far as
like autocompletion and those things.
But more importantly,
the reason this is important is because
this allows you to designate to other
developers that this item should
really be used in this context, right?
And so if you see a ToDoList
show up in a shopping cart,
that's gonna be weird just based
on that naming structure alone.
Whereas if you did something generic like
list item, you're more prone to see people
just sort of reusing components in places
where it probably wasn't meant to be.
And then what you might end up getting to
is that with an architecture that scales
and developers working on different pieces
at different times, people will start
cramming functionality that might not
be related to even to do this item.
But because we call that list item and
someone's like, yeah,
that's kind of what I needed.
And then they use that,
you're gonna end up with just
basically conflicts over time.
And so the better thing to do is
just to like what I had to do too,
you get used to the long name.
And then as a benefit too, you'll see
that if you find that to do this item for
example is starting to be
like some functionality is so
generic that to do list item,
shopping cart item.
And those things are starting to be so
related that you're like they really
should be refactored, then that is a great
time to maybe create a base list item
component that then extends into to
do list item and shopping cart item.
And that way you can still scope your
functionality in a way that again doesn't
clog up build tools, but it makes it very
declarative to developers going forward.
They are like yeah, all this stuff
we take the base list component and
then we extend on to do functionality and
again, it should only be used in the to do
list context and versus the same
thing with shopping cart, right?
Base list item extended with
shopping cart functionality.
And then you get that shareability but
without like the complication of being
like which list item are you referring to?
So this one I highly
recommend trying out for
especially as applications grow in scale.
Okay, Naming Component Methods.
This is something that
there's some debate about but
in general, when it comes to defining
like the callback function, right?
When the user clicks on something,
what am I gonna call that function?
It's tempting to say things
like the event on click, okay?
Well at click equals on click, right?
And then I'll call my method on click.
But generally speaking, this is we're
basically prescribing how like in
the name, we're prescribing how it works,
when in reality what we want to do is use
a descriptive name that provides context.
So on input doesn't tell us anything
besides the fact that it's gonna trigger
on input,
except that's already told to us because
we already have that V on input happening.
So it's a redundancy and
doesn't provide additional context.
Whereas if we use something like
update username for example,
that tells us instantly
what we're attaching it to.
More importantly, overall you can't
assume that the event will be like
that method will be called in that place.
Because now if you called on input
equals on input, in the event or
some other event that's going
to trigger the same thing.
Now you're gonna be stuck in that
position where well technically it's not
on input anymore.
Now it's on click.
So what are we gonna do?
And so to skip the headache entirely,
it's better to just use those descriptive
name that not only provide context but
it basically just a little bit of
documentation to developers who are gonna
come to the code base and have a better
understanding of what's happening.
And so yep, those are the key things I
want you to take away from the slide.
And then this is more of
a generic JavaScript thing but
again worth mentioning because over time
when it comes to scaling your methods, for
example, when as we have multiple
arguments inside of our methods, so
in this case update user, right?
We have userList index value is online.
All of these are different things
that matter to our method.
But this is a lot for developers
especially who if you weren't the one who
wrote it or frankly even if you
wrote it cuz I don't know about you,
I've forgotten multiple times
what order things come in.
It's hard to use that because if you're
trying to use this method in other places,
now you have to be like was it userList,
item, value?
I actually got it right this time,
usually I get it wrong.
But rather than doing it this way,
it's recommended instead to do
it with the destruction method.
So as you can see on the top, we just have
it listed out where it's a fixed order.
And then by simply creating an object
around it, this allows users to
actually define what they're looking for
and not have to remember
that like if I don't need user list I have
to define all here and then going forward.
So just a quick JavaScript tip for
just creating methods that
are easier to use and
basically have a more accessible API for
new developers who aren't used
to using certain signatures.
So yeah, so
we can see here that it's broken down into
our four elements which then
basically allows us to say recommend
using the destructuring arguments
over multiple arguments